Imagine that you're
preparing for a storm.
You've received notification
that a storm is coming.
You prepare by gathering
the tools and materials
you'll need to stay safe.
You make sure your windows
and doors are secure.
You assemble a first aid kit,
tools, food and water.
You're prepared.
The storm hits and there are
powerful winds and heavy rain.
The storm is using its force
to try and breach your home.
You notice some water leaks
and begin patching them quickly
in order to minimize any
risk or potential damage.
Handling a security
incident is no different.
Organizations must prepare for
the storm by ensuring they
have the tools to mitigate and
quickly respond to
outside threats.
The objective is to minimize
risk and potential damage.
As a security analyst,
you'll work to protect
your organization and the
people it serves from
a variety of risks and outside
threats. And if a threat
does get through,
you and your team will provide
a solution to remedy
the situation.
To help you better
understand what this means,
we'll define
security and discuss
the roles of security
professionals in organizations.
Let's start with
some definitions:
Cybersecurity, or
security, is the practice
of ensuring
confidentiality, integrity,
and availability of information
by protecting networks, devices,
people, and data from
unauthorized access or
criminal exploitation.
For example, requiring
complex passwords
to access sites and
services improves
confidentiality by
making it much
more difficult for
a threat actor to
compromise them.
A threat actor is any person
or group who presents
a security risk.
Now that you know the
definition of security,
let's discuss what security
teams do for an organization.
Security protects against
external and internal threats.
An external threat is someone
outside of the organization
trying to gain access to
private information,
networks or devices.
An internal threat comes
from current or
former employees,
external vendors, or
trusted partners.
Often these internal
threats are accidental,
such as an employee clicking on
a compromised link in an email.
Other times, the internal
actor intentionally engages in
activities such as
unauthorized data access
or abusing systems
for personal use.
Experienced security
professionals
will help organizations
mitigate or reduce the impact
of threats like these.
Security teams also ensure
an organization meets
regulatory compliance, or
laws and guidelines, that require
the implementation of
specific security standards.
Ensuring that
organizations are in
compliance may allow
them to avoid fines
and audits, while also upholding
their ethical obligation
to protect users.
Security teams also maintain
and improve business
productivity.
By establishing a plan
for business continuity,
security teams allow
people to do their jobs,
even in the case of something
like a data breach.
Being security
conscious can also
reduce expenses
associated with risks,
such as recovering
from data loss or
operational downtime, and
potentially avoiding fines.
The last benefit of
security that we'll
discuss is maintaining
brand trust.
If services or customer
data are compromised,
this can lower trust
in the organization,
damage the brand, and hurt the
business in the long term.
Loss of customer trust may
also lead to less revenue
for the business.
Now, let's go over some
common security-based roles.
After completing this
certificate program,
here are some job titles
you may want to search for:
Security analyst or specialist,
Cybersecurity analyst
or specialist,
Security operation center or SOC
analyst, Information
security analyst.
You'll also learn more
about the responsibilities
associated with some of
these job titles
later in the program.
As you may now realize,
the field of security includes
many topics and concepts and
every activity you complete in
this program moves you one
step closer to a new job.
Let's keep learning together.